Dr. Sintak, thank you for joining me today.
I recently came across your publication, looking at Elka and ISR cases.
Did you talk to me a little bit about the findings of the study?
So we did. We did a study looking at laser use in the Catholic PCI registry from the
NCDR, the National Cardiovascular Data Research database.
And so this takes all PCI throughout the United States from most centers and codes them for
different variables.
And so what we did is we looked at the codes for use of laser in their and pulled out all
that information and then analyzed it compared to those who didn't have laser, but then
also analyzed it within that group kind of what subgroups was laser working in, what
subgroups wasn't not working in.
And so we ended up getting about 20,000 cases where laser was coded and used, which is by far
the largest collection of laser cases looking at safety.
And this is really just a safety analysis.
So we can't really get as to whether or not it was efficacious or more efficacious
in some instances, but it was really looking at safety.
And what we found was that in general, laser was very safe.
The overall complication rate, if you take into consideration, dissection, perforation,
tamponod, major things that we care about that might harm somebody.
It was about 4.3%.
And if you took all the other interventions or PCIs that didn't use F-rectomy devices,
it was about 3%.
So it was more, but it wasn't a ton more and still very safe.
And what we found was that there were certain subgroups that it seemed to perform in
better, or it was more safe in those subgroups.
And so that one would have been vein graphed interventions, which I know, you know, that
we've used these a lot for those sort of things.
And then also instant recent osures, or what we call ISR.
And it seemed as though if you looked at laser use in the ISR group, it was actually
protective against having complications.
If you compare it to laser use in all the other different sort of lesion.
So you pull out the group that just uses laser and ISR.
And you compare it to all the other lasers that were used for the other groups.
And what you found was there's about a 50% reduction in adverse outcomes with using it in ISR.
And then the other cool thing that we found was that laser use has gone up really significantly
over the last probably seven years.
It's almost a fivefold increase in use of laser over the last five years.
And that group that's grown really the most has been that ISR group.
So it sort of supports what we think is important and safety.
And it supports using laser in that group.
So now that we've talked about the study in context, why is the mechanism of action of laser
helpful in these cases of ISR?
A lot of the mechanism of the action of the laser is aimed at the mechanism of action of ISR.
And so we think a large portion of ISR is caused by under expanded stance.
We put a stentin, a cow's wide lesion.
And because we didn't treat that lesion of fronts, the stents is smaller.
The area is smaller.
And so there's a higher propensity to recentose.
This has really been brought out with the drug-loving stent era because once you take out that
new insimal proliferation or that scar that forms inside the stent, with the drug-loving
stents, it magnifies the effect of having a under expanded stent.
We do see new insimal proliferation and we see new Athoscarosis and stents.
But for the large part, it's under expanded stents.
So what the laser does is it allows you to with this vapor bubble.
And this mechanism of action break up and get rid of that calcium and that stuff behind
the stent.
It also cuts very nicely that new insimal tissue and gets that out of there so you have a
larger liminal gain.
What you see in some of these small studies that have observed this is, if you look with OCT
and things like that in study it more, you'll see that what it appears after you laser
is that it allows for more stent expansion and less dissections and disruptions of those
plaques.
It's a more uniform expansion of that stent.
It has been reported that there are increased complications out of the use of mechanical
Athorectomy and instant re-stenosis.
Can you kind of touch a bit of on this in particular laser Athorectomy in these cases?
Yeah, certainly.
And so you may or may not know this, but laser has been around longer than any Athorectomy
device.
Laser has been around longer than drug-loving stents has been.
And so we've had a large experience with laser.
And what we found in the earlier days, so back in kind of the 90s, we were using laser
differently.
We weren't using it with a saline flush.
We were using it to, instead of stents, we were using it kind of in lieu of stents.
The idea of being, if we just got rid of all that plaque, then you would need to put anything
in there.
And so we were being very aggressive at the size of the laser compared to the coronary
size and all those things.
And so there was a sizable complication rate and it was mostly dissections, perforations.
We just, large part why when we looked at the safety data from what we just talked about
initially was we looked at those sort of endpoints.
But the point is, so we're using it different now.
Now we're talking about lesion preparation.
And so, and that's really true for all Athorectomy devices now, but we're really just trying
to put care of that lesion.
And so if you think about where we use laser, for example, ISR, it's a great use for that.
It's, again, it allows that stent to expand, that's probably under-expended in the
first place.
I will have to say that laser in and of itself was probably the easiest,
the easiest, the Athorectomy device to use.
It's incredibly easy to deliver.
It's incredibly easy to manipulate and move.
We find that our fellows get used to it very quickly and can use it very easily.
And if you pick those right subsets like ISR, it's extremely safe.
Much safer than any sort of mechanical Athorectomy device in stent-reestimosis.
A lot of folks believe that something like rotation, I'll threaten me.
And since it can be helpful, it creates this sort of heat and this friction that allows
some of that stuff behind the stent to break up.
It can even oblate the stent in general.
But that's a very complicated difficult procedure.
It has a very high risk of that burglating in trapped, as a very high risk of having
some other serious complications.
So it takes to a very experienced operator to do that.
Or as if you look at laser, laser is just basically delivering almost a balloon over a wire,
going very slowly back and forth to a blade that sort of new and tumultissue and get behind
that stent and break it up.
It's a very easy thing to do and it's very safe.
And our study we found that it was almost as safe as if you hadn't used that for
to me at all in those patients.
And interesting thing is if you look at something like perforation, so our perforation rate
using laser and ISR in our NCDR study was actually less than if you had used just balloon
angioplasty in ISR.
So the idea being if you use laser to help soften and get that plaque behind it loosened up
and then do your procedure, it's much safer than taking high pressure balloons and trying
to inflate and crack this stent.
It's a much higher incidence of perforation.
Thank you.
I have a historical context and I'm sure the new study is a very helpful there.